Great. Hopefully, you feel as though you have
a clear understanding of configuration spaces,
and if not, you can practice creating a few more from
some drawn-out obstacles and an imaginary robot shape.
It's important to have a strong foundation because in this next section,
we're going to take things to the next level.
In the first few examples,
the robot was represented by a circle.
This was a very easy shaped to use because
its rotation did not affect the geometry of the configuration space.
Our most recent representation of a robot has been a triangle.
As you saw in the quiz,
the configuration space for
a triangular robot moving around a rectangular shape looks like so.
Now, what would happen if we were to rotate our robot by, say, 38 degrees?
Well, the configuration would look quite different.
So, what do we do?
The configuration space changes depending on the orientation of the robot.
One way to standardize the configuration space for
an odd shape robot would be to enclose the robot in a bounding circle.
The circle represents the worst-case scenario.
For some orientations of the robot,
it is a relatively accurate representation of the bounds of its vertices.
But for others, it may be significant exaggeration.
However, at all times,
the bounding circle is equal to or larger than the robot and is current configuration.
So, if a path is found for the bounding circle,
it will work for the robot.
This method is simple,
but it does come with a significant drawback.
An algorithm applied to this generalization would not be complete.
Let's look at a particular example to understand this.
Here, the robot is represented by this triangle.
It must navigate a tight corridor and get to its goal.
As you see here, the task is possible,
and with two rotations,
the robot can navigate the corner and make it to the other end of the corridor.
However, if we were to enclose a triangular robot representation into a bounding circle,
the algorithm would not be able to find a solution
since the circle's diameter is larger than the width of the corridor.
Any algorithm applied here will return no solution found.
So, while bounding circles can be an acceptable solution to some path planning problems,
for instance, ones in wide open environments,
they are not a complete solution.
Really, when you add the ability for the robot to rotate,
you are adding a degree of freedom.
The appropriate way to represent this in the configuration space is to add a dimension.
The x-y plane would continue to represent the translation of the robot in the workspace,
while the vertical axis would represent rotation of the robot.
Continue on to learn more about
3D configuration spaces and see a very helpful visualization of one.